My proofread (#25)
greenelab/iscb-diversity-manuscript: content/10.methods.md

This prediction represents the probability of an honoree or author selecting a certain race or ethnicity on a census form if they lived within the US.

Of 411 ISCB honorees, wru fails to provide race/ethnicity predictions for 98 names.
Of 34,050 corresponding authors, 40 were missing a last name in the paper metadata, and 8,770 had a last name for which wru did not provide predictions.
One limitation of wru and other methods that infer race, ethnicity, or nationality from last names is the potentially inaccurate prediction for scientists who changed their last name during marriage, a practice more common among women than men.

### Estimation of Nationality

To complement wru's race and ethnicity estimation, we developed a model to predict geographical origins of names.
The existing Python package ethnicolr [@arxiv:1805.02109] produces reasonable predictions, but its international representation in the data curated from Wikipedia in 2009 [@doi:10.1145/1557019.1557032] is still limited.
For instance, 76% of the names in ethnicolr's Wikipedia dataset are European in origin, and the dataset contains remarkably fewer Asian, African, and Middle Eastern names compared to that of wru.

> Improving upon ethnicolr, we built a similar classifier, a Long Short-term Memory (LSTM) neural network, to infer the region of origin from patterns in the sequences of letters in full names.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To address the limitations of ethnicolr, we built a similar classifier, a Long Short-term Memory (LSTM) neural network, to infer the region of origin from patterns in the sequences of letters in full names.
```

> However, we applied this model on an updated, approximately 4.5 times larger training dataset called Wiki2019 (described below).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We applied this model on an updated, approximately 4.5 times larger training dataset called Wiki2019 (described below).
```
